# SCSS

**Table of Contents**

1. [Introduction](#Introduction)
1. [Class Naming Theory](#Class-Naming-Theory)
1. [BEM](#BEM)
  2. [Using BEM](#Using-BEM)
    3. [Block](#Block)
    4. [Element](#Element)
    5. [Modifier](#Modifier)
  3. [BEM in Sass](#BEM-in-Sass)
4. [ITCSS](#ITCSS)
  5. [File Naming](#File-Naming)
    6. [Settings](#Settings)
    7. [Tools](#Tools)
    8. [Generic](#Generic)
    9. [Elements](#Elements)
    10. [Objects](#Objects)
    11. [Components](#Components)
    12. [Utilities](#Utilities)
13. [ITCSS and BEM](#ITCSS-and-BEM)
2. [Name Spacing](#Name-Spacing)


## Introduction

Our CSS is organized using [Harry Roberts](csswizardry.com)' Inverted Triangle CSS (ITCSS) organizational approach. This method is mixed with [Block Element Modifier](http://getbem.com) (BEM) naming convention for class names throughout the stylesheet.

---

## Class Naming Theory

When it comes to naming classes we find it best to be as specific as possible with the fewest words possible. This can be an exercise in understanding the purpose and function of a component. It helps to find like components to define a generic name that encapsulates the uses this component will have. However, don’t be afraid to be specific. Keep in mind that naming is for humans, so verboseness is useful if it helps more effectively communicate what this class does and what it is for. Ideally a future develop should be able to look at a class name and have a reasonable idea what to look for in the rendered page.

---

## BEM

### Using BEM

#### Block

`.block`
Parent wrapper of the component

#### Element

`.block__element`
An element inside the component

#### Modifier
`.block--modifier`
A class modifying the entire component

`.block__element--modifier` 
A class modifying a single element inside a component

### BEM in Sass

The formatting of BEM relies on Sass local variables to ease the amount of repetitiveness inherent with BEM. Using the same structure above looks like this in the SCSS file:

```scss
.block {
  // styles for .block

  &__element {
    // styles for .block__element

    &--modifier {
      // styles for .block__element--modifier
    }
  }

  &--modifier {
    // styles for .block--modifier
  }
}
```

---

## ITCSS

### File Naming

#### Settings

When using a preprocessor, settings are used to define variable. This puts variables at the top of the cascade so they are accessible to all partials further down. No CSS selectors should be generated by the preprocessor from partials in this section.

When not using a preprocessor, the settings area is a good place to write comments describing the colors and font stacks as a guide. If using features such as custom properties, those that are global custom properties should be described in this section.

#### Tools

This section is specifically for preprocessor global mixins and functions. No CSS should be generated by the preprocessor from partials in this section.

#### Generic

Here we define any generic styles that are not specific to the styles of the site. This section should include any Reset or Normalize libraries and any preferential base styles for elements. There shouldn’t be any classes or ids used in this section.

#### Elements

Styling for bare HTML elements (like H1, A, etc.). These come with default styling from the browser so we can redefine them here.
#### Objects

Class-based selectors which define undecorated design patterns, for example media object known from OOCSS.

#### Components

Specific UI components. This is where majority of our work takes place and our UI components are often composed of Objects and Components

#### Utilities

Utilities and helper classes with ability to override anything which goes before in the triangle, eg. hide helper class

---

## How ITCSS works with BEM

---

## Name Spacing

We namespace to articulate what class names we wrote. As with the class naming section above, name spacing is a useful tool to describe what kind of class this is and how it functions. Also, like class naming, the more information the easier it is to comprehend for future developers.

A name space title should consist of more than one character but no more than four characters. One character rarely provides enough information to describe the type of class, and more than four and the name space begins to compete with the class name. Name spaces should be quick to comprehend, but only act as an aid to define the type of styles that will exist and how they function.

Most often our name spacing will derive from the ITCSS section the class belongs in. For example `.cmp-` for components, `.obj-` for objects, and `.util-` for utility classes.

