# Style Structure Guide

Unsure of where to put styles? You've come to the right place.

## Notes:

This structure generates two CSS files: _mq.css & _no-mq.css. These two generated files have different understandings of the sbmedia mixin. This lets us use the sbmedia mixin to write media queries for competent browsers (mq.css), and have them applied smallest-up when media queries aren't supported (no-mq.css).
Take a look at _base.scss to see how styles are split up.
*Note that not all imported partials are included for this demo. Therefore, this demo won't compile.*

* **_[project name]-reset** is a reset stylesheet, but modified to our needs on a per-project basis. You're obviously going to want to change the name of this. This prevents duplicated styles that would be generated by including a _normalize stylesheet, and still overriding these styles. We style generic elements here (`a`, `h1`, `p`, etc.)
 
* **_general-styles** is the same idea as _[project name]-reset, but with class names. Think `.important-heading` and `.bulleted-list`. These are reusable styles that don't quite matter enough to necessitate an entire module.

* **_web-fonts** is used to define `@font-face` rules for web fonts, not font stacks. Font family stacks belong in either _general-mixins or _general-extends.

* **_layout** is used to give structure to layout-specific classes. Think `.page-wrapper` and `.main-content`.

* Anything else not covered belongs in a module. A module is a self-contained partial that provides styles for a specific object (main navigation, footer, etc.), or kind of object (buttons, social links, etc.). It contains mixins and extends defined at the top, followed by styles. If it becomes large and unweildily, consider breaking it up into submodules.

## Rules:

* **Styles belong in their most specific possible home.** If you have layout-ish styles that are closely associated with a module (e.g. making navigation full width and giving it a margin), put it in its respective module file. Not in _layout.

* **Not all mixins & extends belong in general-mixins & general-extends.** If a mixin or extend is specific to a module, it simply goes at the top of that module.

* **Try to keep module files around 100-150 lines.** This is more of a suggestion than anything. If your modules get bigger than this, consider breaking it up into separate modules (e.g. _bio module breaks into _bio-header & _bio-body modules).
